COOKING FROM THE HEART
Dear my culinary friends,
our today’s guest lived for a long time over there in the US
and recently she came here to visit friends and family.
And we used this occasion to invite her to our show
because she practices, for us really unusual and unordinary,
type of diet and philosophy of life.
Ms Milica Milovanovic
Welcome
It’s good to see you
So Milica you have been practicing Macrobiotics for...
22 years
22 whole years
Did you go to some school in the US?
Yes, I was living and working at the Kushi Institute
in Beckett, Massachusetts with the leading Macrobiotic teacher Michio Kushi.
There were also other teachers but he is the founder.
And what is the core of that philosophy?
The core is, for example I am female and you are male
and we attract each other.
So if we add salt to something that is sweet
then the sugar will come to the surface.
It is about 2 philosophies, totally different...
sorry, not philosophies
2 different principles that complement each other.
That means that every yin has a yang part
and every yang has a yin part.
So in the relation to how and what do you eat
you can make your condition
stronger or if you eat weaker foods
that doesn’t have enough energy
you become more depressive and uninterested.
If you are too fidgety and nervous
you can relax yourself with the food.
Yes that’s right
Really interesting way of thinking,
there is entire philosophy on it not only the diet.
Yes, Macrobiotics is an everyday observation
of life
that leads to a choice of your freedom and your destiny.
Destiny. Thank you for coming
and I hope that your meal today will be interesting for our viewers also.
Thanks for having me.
RECIPE OF THE DAY
So Milica what are we preparing for today?
I am going to add a little bit of oil,
because it is a summer period, we need some extra energy.
What are you making for us?
I am making a soup with parsnips, corn and leeks.
Before we chop the leeks we need to cut them in half
because usually they have some dirt underneath.
It is the best to wash it first, and then we can cut it and then cook it.
This is good for summer days,
when we sweat a lot
and need something to cool us down.
Ok, now we are going to grate the corn,
and then we will strip down everything
because this is the sweetest part.
See how this knife is good.
Now we are going to add some water
and leave it on the stove
until we finish grating the corn and parsnips.
Very good
So Milica here you already grated the corn and parsnips,
it looks really nicely chopped
Here we simmered the leeks
Leeks were tiny chopped.
Of course, now we are going to add some parsnips.
It will all blend and cook together.
Good
And some corn...
Yes also some corn on the top.
Corn is really fresh
Yes It is. This is going to be a nice soup with parsnips, corn and leeks
Macrobiotics is not a boogie man,
it is a traditional way of eating.
Our grandmothers were making this.
he only spice is salt, nothing else.
We are going to cook this for 15 minutes.
That is it
Now we are going to add some salt.
Salt needs to be cooked for at least 10 minutes so that it becomes digestible.
If you season your meal with uncooked salt you don’t support your indigestion.
It is the best to cook it for 10 minutes.
You can see how it looks colorful and beautiful.
We can add more water if we want it to be thinner
or we can add some polenta if we want it to be denser,
but I think this is the best way.
The best variation, that’s right.
we are going to cook this for about 15 minutes...
...and then we will try it
...and we will try it then.
PARSNIPS SOUP:
3 leeks, 2 sweet corns, bunch of parsnips root, pinch of salt, water
FOOD FOR THE EYES
Hey Dejan here is something for the spoon.
this is not bad at all
It is sweet and nice...
yes it is sweet, because it is sweet corn
leeks also contribute to sweetness.
Mhm, very tasty
Parsnips also contribute to sweet taste.
That’s right. This is really unusual with parsnips and so much sweet corn,
I've never tried it before.
This is great
I’m glad you like it.
You are the first one that cooked Macrobiotic dish that is tasty and edible.
There are no chemicals in it.
No chemicals, that’s great
It is something traditional as it always is with Macrobiotics